Running your first OT on Ubuntu Linux (#2)
otland/docs: running-your-first-ot-server/setup-webserver-linux.md

# Setting up your ubuntu linux server

> guiding to setup your very own ubuntu linux server with a webserver plus the ability to deploy your tfs server

Reviewer: Should be full sentences.

> > We are not responsible for the mistakes you make

Reviewer: I wouldn't even add that, it's obvious.

# Getting started

> Rent a ubuntu server 18.04 or higher from a trusted hosting company such as ovh.com or install for the sake of learning experience ubuntu server 18.04 or higher on another computer or if you are on windows use virtualbox to get your ubuntu server.

Reviewer: Avoid naming specific companies in the official docs (remove ovh.com)

Reviewer: Proper capitalization needed (`Ubuntu Server` not `ubuntu server`), also the operating system isn't really tied to the physical server you rent.

# Getting started

> Rent a Ubuntu Server 18.04 or higher from a trusted hosting company such or install for the sake of learning experience Ubuntu Server 18.04 or higher in VirtualBox.

Reviewer: Technically, WSL could be used on Windows as well instead of VirtualBox.

Author: Using WSL as server would cause many people with a lot of issues. I been through issues with it as well. Giving more options would give people a better feeling for themselves to pick the way they find to use the best. VirtualBox is given as example since its great for new people. When you've made a mistake you delete the VM and create a new one and start over. We are making guides for people which has no knowledge.

Reviewer 2: VirtualBox also empowers them with advanced solutions, such as using USB passthrough to a separate Wifi dongle. This ensures Windows is not interfering, in any manner whatsoever, with the TFS servers internet connectivity. An important elimination of complexity in the typical diagnosing self-hosted login issues thread in the support forum. Though admittedly outside the scope of this particular guide.

Still, if both options are presented, VirtualBox should be preferred, because it presents the full native Linux environment. And if there is an advanced guide on the matter they follow later, it would definitely introduce them to VBox's seamless mode, which is a game changer for really experiencing the power of a Linux desktop environment without leaving their comfortable safety of Windows. Call it optimism for the best result.

> Once you're set we will start by accessing our server. If you're on windows you should get putty(https://www.putty.org/), if you're on macOS or Linux you can use the terminal which is standard available. With putty just follow the screen ( insert your domain/ip-address and click ok ) for macOS and linux users type:

Reviewer: I think it would be safer to recommend using Windows Subsystem for Linux as a native SSH client or simply installing SSH client via Windows features.

Author: Here you have a point indeed! WSL is safer, but putty would be easier for new people. It would be your call what you would like to be better in there.

```
`username example => root
domain/ipaddress example => yourdomain.com or 127.0.0.1`

Now you will be prompted for your password (if in putty you will be prompted for the password as soon you click on Open) Insert your password and presh enter (you will not see what you type, so make sure you type your password in the right order). Now we are in our server :)

## Update and Upgrade the system
The first thing we will do is updating our Ubuntu Server with the following command
```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
```
We are using 'sudo' since I do not know if you're running as root user or as regular user. When you're logged in as regular user. No problem! Just enter your password when the terminal asks for your password. With the command above you will update the connected repository's the server is connected to and when the server is done updating the repository's it will directly upgrade all the packages which were updated.

# Installing the webserver

Now we will get to the more difficult part of the entire server setup, installing nginx, php-fpm, mariadb-server with phpmyadmin.
```bash
sudo apt install nginx php-fpm mariadb-server -y
```

> The installation process is now triggered.When this is finished we will install phpmyadmin to handle our database server (which is mariadb)

Reviewer: Missing space, capitalization (`MariaDB`)

Author: Removed the part as its not necessary to be there.

```bash
sudo apt install phpmyadmin -y
```
Now we are set to get some configurations going!

## Configuring the webserver
First we want to know which version of php-fpm is installed we will check this by writing the following command in the terminal
```bash
sudo php -v
```
The output will be looking something similar as this (I am using ubuntu 19.10 here which uses php version 7.3 as default. If you're running on a server you most likely run on 18.04 lts or with the newest version 20.04 lts):

> ![alt text](https://worldofcoding.net/github-img/otland-gitbook/phpversion.png "phpversion")

Reviewer: what is this website? It should ideally be just text, let's avoid images of text.

> Second we want to do is enabling php in our nginx server and setting the configuration just as we want. So we will be going to edit our nginx config. Now we need to install a command line text editor called "vim". After that we installed it we will directly open the configuration file.

Reviewer: `nano` is easier than `vim` but it's just a matter of preference.

Author: I struggle with nano 🔢

Reviewer 2: Unless you know your audience _already_ knows vi, nano is the safe bet. The audience that already knows vi probably wouldn't need this portion of the guide in the first place.

Though, if you are aiming for the neophytes and you know they are using modern systems, such as Ubuntu 20.04LTS, [micro](https://micro-editor.github.io/) should take precedence over nano.

```bash
sudo apt install vim -y && sudo vim /etc/nginx/sites-available/default
```

> Now sit straight up and read carefully on what we're going to do. I am going to give you a few options in the configuration. Underneath here you will find the default configuration file of nginx. ( I only took the part of the config file we are in need to use and left out all the comments which we do use in this tutorial )

Reviewer: > Now sit straight up and read carefully on what we're going to do.
While funny, this is meta-text and doesn't actually contribute anything. Let's avoid unnecessary prose.

Author: Removed it.

## Changing the web-root

We can change the 'root' directory of the website folder, if you're only using your server as root leave it in '/var/www/html'. When using it as for example 'john' you can change the directory to your default directory when you come when you login which is: '/home/john' in the default directory of john you can do 'mkdir www' to create a directory for the website and set: '/home/john/www' on line '5' instead of '/var/www/html'.

## Configuring php

> I already enabled php here by writing 'index.php' on line number '24'. I've uncommented the php location settings we need to use. To make it easy and understanding I made own comments for you guys to know which lines to comment and uncomment, depending on which Ubuntu Server version you are running ( and assuming you're using Ubuntu Server 18.04 lts ).

Reviewer: > Ubuntu Server 18.04 lts 
it's `LTS`

Author: Changed

        #
        #       # With php-fpm (or other unix sockets):
        ################## UBUNTU 18.04 LTS ##################
               fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/php/php7.2-fpm.sock;
        ################## UBUNTU 20.04 LTS ##################
        #       fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/php/php7.4-fpm.sock;

        }

}

```
Now we have to save the file and quit the file, we do this the following way:
`CTRL+C` After that you will just write `:wq` press enter and we have saved and quit the file :)

We are set with the entire webserver now and so its time to check if we actually did everything as we supposed to do, but first we have to restart our web features. We do this with the following commands:
`Change the number of the php-fpm version to one you're using!!!`
```bash
sudo systemctl restart nginx
sudo systemctl restart php7.2-fpm
```
Lets open our browser and goto your ip-address and see how wonderful you are!
Your very own setup and configured server!

# Setup the database user + phpmyadmin

We need to create ourselves a mysql admin account. We will be doing this the following way. Please follow the steps carefully :)

```bash
sudo mariadb
```

> ![alt text](https://worldofcoding.net/github-img/otland-gitbook/phpversion.png "phpversion")

Reviewer: This again?

Author: Removed it.

###### You are inside the database right now!

We will be creating the user 'otadmin' with the password of 'otadminpassword', change these values to what you want it to be!
```bash
create user 'otadmin'@'localhost' identified by 'otadminpassword';
grant all privileges on *.* to 'otadmin'@'localhost';
flush privileges;
exit;
```
Insert these lines one by one.
Now we have setup our database superuser :)

## Configure phpmyadmin
Setup phpmyadmin to access your database via the browser.

Insert the following configuration in a new file inside the nginx folder. The following command will create the file and when you are in insert the configuration posted below.
( same as for the webserver nginx configuration I have made comments for the ubuntu versions inside the php location )
`sudo vim /etc/nginx/sites-available/phpmyadmin`
```bash
server {

>     listen      2344;

Reviewer: Why this port?

Author: Just took a random port, can be changed to what you desire.

        return 404 "You're not browsing correctly.";
        add_header Content-Type text/plain always;
    }

}
```
Now we have to save the file and quit the file, we do this the following way:
`CTRL+C` After that you will just write `:wq` press enter and we have saved and quit the file :)

Now we have to enable the phpmyadmin configuration for nginx we do that by running the next command:
`sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/phpmyadmin /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/phpmyadmin`

Finally restart the nginx server with `sudo systemctl restart nginx` and we will be able to access phpmyadmin by http://youripordomain:2344 login with the database username and password we've created.

# Setup your Server for TFS
First of all we need to install a few packages to our system which makes us able to build the TFS sources.

Directly copy'd from the TFS github wiki(https://github.com/otland/forgottenserver/wiki/Compiling-on-Ubuntu):
## Install the required software

The following command will install Git, CMake, a compiler and the libraries used by The Forgotten Server.

Git will be used to download the source code, and CMake will be used to generate the build files.
```bash

> sudo apt-get install git cmake build-essential liblua5.2-dev libgmp3-dev libmysqlclient-dev libboost-system-dev libboost-iostreams-dev libboost-filesystem-dev libpugixml-dev libcrypto++-dev

Reviewer: This is outdated.

Author: Changed.

```
## Download the source code

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/otland/forgottenserver.git
```
## Generate the build files
```bash
cd forgottenserver
mkdir build && cd build
cmake ..
```

> ## Build

Reviewer: Try to leave one empty line above every header.

Author: Done 👍

# Getting started
Rent a Ubuntu Server 18.04 or higher from a trusted hosting company or install for the sake of learning experience Ubuntu Server 18.04 or higher in VirtualBox.

> Once you're set we will start by accessing our server. If you're on windows you should get putty(https://www.putty.org/), if you're on macOS or Linux you can use the terminal which is standard available. With putty just follow the screen ( insert your domain/ip-address and click ok ) for macOS and linux users type:

Reviewer: Lot's of typos:
* `PuTTY` not `putty`
* No spaces inside `(` and `)`
* `IP address` not `ip-address`
* `click "OK"` not `click ok`
* `Linux` not `linux`

Reviewer 3: You can use a link to PuTTy instead

```bash
ssh username@domain/ipaddress
```
`username example => root
domain/ipaddress example => yourdomain.com or 127.0.0.1`

> Now you will be prompted for your password (if in putty you will be prompted for the password as soon you click on Open) Insert your password and presh enter (you will not see what you type, so make sure you type your password in the right order). Now we are in our server :)

Reviewer: PuTTY misspelled
Missing full stop at the end of sentence.
`presh` -> `press`

> ## Update and Upgrade the system

Reviewer: Missing newline after header

> The first thing we will do is updating our Ubuntu Server with the following command

Reviewer: `command:` (colon missing)

```bash
sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y
```

> We are using 'sudo' since I do not know if you're running as root user or as regular user. When you're logged in as regular user. No problem! Just enter your password when the terminal asks for your password. With the command above you will update the connected repository's the server is connected to and when the server is done updating the repository's it will directly upgrade all the packages which were updated.

Reviewer: Something here doesn't flow/make sense.
The guide should specify whether to work as `root` or regular user.

# Installing the webserver

> Now we will get to the more difficult part of the entire server setup, installing nginx, php-fpm, mariadb-server with phpmyadmin.

Reviewer: Omit `Now we will get to the more difficult part of the entire server setup` - not informative.

```bash
sudo apt install nginx php-fpm mariadb-server -y
```

> The installation process is now triggered.When this is finished we will install phpmyadmin to handle our database server

Reviewer: Typos

```bash
sudo apt install phpmyadmin -y
```
Now we are set to get some configurations going!

## Configuring the webserver

> First we want to know which version of php-fpm is installed we will check this by writing the following command in the terminal

Reviewer: Package names should be marked as "code" with the tilde, e.g.: `php-fpm`

```bash
sudo php -v
```
The output will be looking similar to this:
```
PHP 7.2.24-0ubuntu0.18.04.3 (cli) (built: Feb 11 2020 15:55:52) ( NTS )
Copyright (c) 1997-2018 The PHP Group
Zend Engine v3.2.0, Copyright (c) 1998-2018 Zend Technologies
    with Zend OPcache v7.2.24-0ubuntu0.18.04.3, Copyright (c) 1999-2018, by Zend Technologies
```

> Second we want to do is enabling php in our nginx server and setting the configuration just as we want. So we will be going to edit our nginx config. Now we need to install a command line text editor called "vim". After that we installed it we will directly open the configuration file.

Reviewer: `PHP` not `php`

```bash

> sudo apt install vim -y && sudo vim /etc/nginx/sites-available/default

Reviewer: No need to chain commands, just put them in two separate lines.
Explaining what `&&` does is unnecessary here, so let's just not use it.

```

> I am going to give you a few options in the configuration. Underneath here you will find the default configuration file of nginx. ( I only took the part of the config file we are in need to use and left out all the comments which we do use in this tutorial )

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below you will find the default configuration file of nginx (only relevant parts are shown, comments ommitted).
```

Reviewer: Try to avoid first-person narrative ("I did"), author is not important here.

> ## Changing the web-root

Reviewer: Generally this section is not "necessary" as most people and guides do indeed keep the web root in `/var/www/` / `/var/www/html/` and rarely ever people need to put more than one "website" on a VPS for OTS.

> We can change the 'root' directory of the website folder, if you're only using your server as root leave it in '/var/www/html'. When using it as for example 'john' you can change the directory to your default directory when you come when you login which is: '/home/john' in the default directory of john you can do 'mkdir www' to create a directory for the website and set: '/home/john/www' on line '5' instead of '/var/www/html'.

Reviewer: On Linux, the term in use is `directory`, not `folder`. Since this is technical documentation, you have to try to use proper terms.

           fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/php/php7.2-fpm.sock;
    ################## UBUNTU 20.04 LTS ##################
    #       fastcgi_pass unix:/var/run/php/php7.4-fpm.sock;

    }

    location @notfound {
        return 404 "You're not browsing correctly.";
        add_header Content-Type text/plain always;
    }

}
```
Now we have to save the file and quit the file, we do this the following way:
`CTRL+C` After that you will just write `:wq` press enter and we have saved and quit the file :)

Now we have to enable the phpmyadmin configuration for nginx we do that by running the next command:
`sudo ln -s /etc/nginx/sites-available/phpmyadmin /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/phpmyadmin`

Finally restart the nginx server with `sudo systemctl restart nginx` and we will be able to access phpmyadmin by http://youripordomain:2344 login with the database username and password we've created.

# Setup your Server for TFS

First of all we need to install a few packages to our system which makes us able to build the TFS sources.

Directly copy'd from the TFS github wiki(https://github.com/otland/forgottenserver/wiki/Compiling-on-Ubuntu):

> ## Install the required software

Reviewer: The content from this line is duplicated - it's already documented in the TFS wiki, which we might move over to the OTS Guide.

It's not wrong but it will quickly get outdated. It's best to link to the wiki which is kept up to date.
In fact, the package list is already outdated below and the instructions wouldn't work.
